hi welcome to part three of game theory
and Breaking Bad the scene we're going
to discuss now is one of the most
dramatic scenes and one of the best
examples of game theory and it really
speaks for itself so we'll quickly just
set up what's going on and you should
enjoy and watch the clip this scene
takes place just before the gun scene in
the episode crazy handful of nothing the
background is that Jesse has tried to
meet with Tuco and conduct a business
deal but Tuco is a ruthless drug lord
and he steals their product and he beats
up Jesse to a bloody pulp so Walt is
cornered he needs to figure out a way
that he can not only get money for the
product that to go stole but he also
wants to be in business so that he can
make money so how is he going to do this
we'll see the action that Walt takes
alright now let's do an analysis of the
scene an important detail in waltz
meeting is that to go first extinguishes
a cigarette in his mouth this is a
classic tough-guy move Tuukka wants to
show that he can't be intimidated that
he is the one who holds the power
so although Walt tries to reason he's
only gonna get through if he can
demonstrate he can be a tough guy as
well so what Walt does is he uses the
strategy of mutually assured destruction
the idea is that he Walt is willing to
go nuclear he has enough firepower that
can destroy everyone and if Tuco isn't
willing to play game then Walt is just
gonna take actions and everyone's gonna
be decimated the key to mutually assured
destruction is that Walt has to show his
threat is credible and he takes that in
dramatic fashion so it's that small
explosion which demonstrates Walt means
business and that's why to go relents
the idea that you can create a
reputation is something that will expand
on and something that Walt learns from
Tuco in part for thanks for watching
this video you can find me in mind your
decisions or on Twitter at pressure
Walker